---
sidebar_position: 5
title: 'Part 4: Game Controller'
sidebar_label: Game Controller
draft: false
---

## Putting it all together

The Resources folder structure should look something like this:
```diff
  resources
  ├── images
  │   └── .gitkeep
  ├── scripts
  │   ├── rock_paper_scissors.js
++│   └── index.js
  └── styles
      └── styles.css
```
The marked file is the file you'll be using in the part of the assignment.

In this final piece of the assignment, we will need to:
* get a handle of all elements of interest.
* then We will add event listeners to the buttons
* We will call on our RockPaperScissors class methods as needed.

1. create constants `const` of element handlers to the following elements
  * welcomeScreen for `#welcome-screen`
  * gameScreen for `#game-screen`
  * startGameButton for `#start-game-button`
  * userName for `#username`
  * userSelection for `#user-selection`
  * goButton for `#go-button`
  * scoreParagraph for `#score`
  * gameHistoryParagraph for `#game-history`

  **Example**
  ```js
  const welcomeScreen = document.getElementById(`welcome-screen`);
  ```
  OR, using the `querySelector`
  ```js
  const gameScreen = document.querySelector(`#game-screen`);
  ```

2. programmatically, hide the `gameScreen` using Bootstrap's class `d-none`
  ```js
  gameScreen.classList.add("d-none")
  ```

3. add an Event Listener to the `start-game-button` on the click event. The event handler should:

    1. get username from the text input to be used in the next step.
    2. instantiate the game object from the `RockPaperScissors` class.
        ```js
        game = new RockPaperScissors(username);
        ```
        * **Note**: The top of the file already has a declared(but not initialized) variable `game`. I'm assigning the value of the new class object to this variable, instead of declaring it in the eventHandler. *Remember* variables are scoped in JS, if the variable is declared inside the event handler scope, it will only be accessible from there.
    3. hide the welcomeScreen and display the gameScreen Instead.
        * **🦉tip**: you'll be adding and removing the `d-none` class.
        * **🦉tip**: You may need to do `e.preventDefault()` to prevent the form from submitting, and the page from reloading.


4. Create a function named `function updateScoreTallyUI(){...}`
    1. Modify the `#score` paragraph. It should look something like this
        * `<USERNAME>: <USER_SCORE>  v  CPU: <CPU_SCORE>`
            * i.e. if `username` is *Yahya* and the `userScore` is 3 and the `cpuScore` is 5, it would change the scoreParagraph to `Yahya: 3  v  CPU: 5`
        you can get the `username`, and `score` object from the game object. `game.username`, `game.score`
    2. In the `start-game-button` event listener, invoke this function to update the `#score` paragraph so it displays the user's name instead of the Generic`User`

5. Create a function named `function updateGameHistoryUI(){...}`
    * it makes use of the class property `gameHistoryLog`.
    * it clears the current game history paragraph
    * and replaces it with the content of the array.

6. add an Event Listener to the `go-button` on the click event.
    * get the userSelection from the select
    * call the `play(userSelection)` of the `game` object.
    * update the text of `scoreParagraph` using the `updateScoreTallyUI()` function
    * update the `gameHistoryParagraph` using the `updateGameHistoryUI()` function

## Testing
- to test that you satisfied the controller requirements, run the tests with `npm run test:controller`. This will run the E2E tests for the controller component only of this assignment.
- You can also run the entire suite of E2E tests using `npm run test:e2e`. At this point all tests should pass