---
sidebar_position: 3
title: 'Part 2: Light/Dark Mode'
sidebar_label: Light/Dark Mode
---

This is not really part of the game but it's a nice feature to have. We will add a button to toggle between light and dark mode.

## In HTML
- In the `header` component, add a `span` tag with `🌞/🌙` as the content.
- Give that span an id of `mode-toggle`.

## In JS
In the `dark-mode-toggle.js` file: (make sure to include it in the `index.html` file)
- Create a variable reference to the `mode-toggle` span.
- Add an event listener to the `mode-toggle` span to print a message to the console when clicked.
- Test this by clicking the span and checking the console for the message.

:::info
🦉: Ultimately, we'll want to toggle the `body` class property of `light-mode`. This assumes the game's default will be dark mode.
:::

## In CSS
- Define the styles for the `light-mode` class in the `styles.css` file.
- define the colors of the light mode such that:
  - Background color: `#F5F8FF`
  - Text Color: `#0B1623`
  - Wrong letter color: `#FF4D4D`
  - Misplaced letter color: `#FFCC00`
  - Correct letter color: `#00CC66`
- Notice how those colors had to be modified in multiple places in the code. When the game code becomes more complex, this will become a maintenance nightmare.

### CSS Variables
This is a good place to use CSS variables. Define the colors using CSS variables.
  - You can learn more about that here: [CSS Variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties)
- Define the colors using CSS variables. set the root/default colors in the `:root` selector and the light mode colors in the `.light-mode` selector.
```css
:root {
  --default: #121213;
  --wrong: #3a3a3c;
  --misplaced: #b59f3b;
  --correct: #538d4e;
  --text-color: #f5f5f5;
}

.light-mode {
  --default: #f5f5f5;
  --wrong: #ff4d4d;
  --misplaced: #ffcc00;
  --correct: #00cc66;
  --text-color: #121213;
}
```

## Back in the JS
- Let's modify the event listener to toggle a class `light-mode` on the `body` tag when clicked.

Test the game to see if the colors change when you click the mode toggle button.