---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 'Part 2: Dynamically Build the Layout'
sidebar_label: Dynamic Layout
---

## Layout Building

### Add Letter Cell to Grid
- Each cell should have an ID that corresponds to its position in the grid.
- Each cell should have a class of `letter`.

### Create a Grid of Cells using a double for loop
- we need to create a constant that captures the game configuration (e.g., number of rows and columns).
- We'll need to create a function that will dynamically build the layout based on the game configuration.
  - Call the previous function to create the grid of cells.

### Create a function that adds a letter to a cell at a given position.
- We need to create a variable that captures the game state:
  - The word that the user is trying to guess.
  - the current attempt
  - the current position of the last letter added to the grid.

:::tip
  call that last function, make sure it works
:::

## Capture User Input
- Add an event listener on the document that listens for the `keydown` event.
- When a key is pressed, check if it is a letter.
  - If it is a letter, add it to the grid at the right position.
    - Call the function that adds a letter to a cell at a given position.
  - If it is a `backspace` key, remove the last letter from the grid.
  - If it is an `enter` key:
    - If the current attempt is more than the game allowed number of attempts, end the game.
    - If the current position is less than the length of the word, indicate that the word is not complete.
  - If it is not a letter, ignore it.

### Misc.
- We may need to create a function that adds a letter to a cell at a given position.
- We need to keep track of the position of the last letter added to the grid.
- https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/api/v2/entries/en/word

