---
sidebar_position: 4
title: 'Part 3: Dynamically Build the Layout'
sidebar_label: Dynamic Layout
---

## Layout Building
- Create variable reference to the `grid` div.

### Add Letter Cell to Grid
- Create a function `addBoxToGrid(row, col)` that can create a cell and add it to the grid. The function should:
  - Create a `div` element. using the `document.createElement` method.
  - Set the cell class to `letter`.
  - Set the cell's ID property to correspond with its position in the grid.
    - The function should take the position as an arguments (`row`, `col`).

### Create a Grid of Cells using a nested for loop
- Create a game config variable to capture the game configuration (e.g., number of rows and columns) or in other terms, number of attempts and the size of the words.
- Create a function `setupGrid()` that can create a grid of cells. The function should:
  - The funciton will call the `addBoxToGrid` function passing in the row and column as arguments as it loops over the configured number of rows and columns.

:::tip
  Call the `setupGrid` function to make sure it works and to create the grid.
:::

### Create a function that adds a letter to a cell at a given position.
- We need to create a variable that captures the game state:
  - The word that the user is trying to guess.
  - the current attempt
  - the current position of the last letter added to the grid.
  - The full grid, to make it easier to check the words
    - Alternatively, we'd have to extract the content of each cell and concatenate it to form the word.

:::tip
  call that last function, make sure it works
:::
