---
sidebar_position: 5
title: 'Part 4: Capture User Input'
sidebar_label: Capture Input
---

In this step we want to listen for user input and add it to the grid.

## Capture User Input
- Add an event listener on the document (the whole document) that listens for the `keydown` event.
- Print the user input to the console when a key is pressed.

Our game will need to capture 3 types/keys of user input:
- Letters
- Backspace
- Enter

### Validate the User Input
We'll need to check if the user input is a letter, backspace, or an enter key.

- to check if an input is a letter, we can use the `event.key` property and check if it is a letter using the `RegExp` object. You can use the following snippet:
  ```js
  function isLetter(letter) {
    return letter.length === 1 && letter.match(/[a-z]/i);
  }
  ```
  and it can be used like this:

  ```js
  document.addEventListener('keydown', (event) => {
    if (isLetter(event.key)) {
      console.log(`letter: ${event.key}`);
    }
    // ...
  });
  ```
- complete the snippet above to check for the backspace and enter keys.

Here's how the game should handle the different types of user input:
- If the user presses a letter, add it to the grid at the right position.
- If the user presses the backspace key, remove the last letter from the grid.
- If the user presses the enter key:
  - If the current position is less than the length of the word, indicate that the word is not complete.
  - We check if the game is over.
    - If the word guessed is correct, end the game.
    - if the current attempt is more than the game allowed number of attempts, end the game.


to be able to manage all of these, we need to capture the game state:
- The word that the user is trying to guess.
- the current attempt (the current row)
- the current position of the last letter added to the grid. (the current column)

We'll take care of handling the game state in the next step. For now, let's create a function to the controller that adds a letter to a cell at a given position.



## Create a function that adds a letter to a cell at a given position.
Create a function `addLetterToBox(row, col, letter)` that can add a letter to a cell at a given position. The function should:
- Create a variable reference to the cell at the given position.
- Modify the cell's content to the given letter.

:::tip
  Note that the row represents the attempt and the column represents the position of the letter in the word.
:::

:::info
  call the function, make sure it works
:::

## Capture User Input
- Add an event listener on the document that listens for the `keydown` event.
- When a key is pressed, check if it is a letter.
  - If it is a letter, add it to the grid at the right position.
    - Call the function that adds a letter to a cell at a given position. (this function should also add it to the )
  - If it is a `backspace` key, remove the last letter from the grid.
  - If it is an `enter` key:
    - If the current attempt is more than the game allowed number of attempts, end the game.
    - If the current position is less than the length of the word, indicate that the word is not complete.
  - If it is not a letter, ignore it.





