---
sidebar_position: 6
title: 'Part 5: Game Logic and Controller'
sidebar_label: Game Logic and Controller
---

## Game State
- Create a variable that captures the game state:
  - The word that the user is trying to guess.
  - the `currentAttempt` (starting from 0)
  - the `currentPosition` of the last letter added to the grid. (starting from 0)
  - The `currentGuess` the user has provided so far. (starting from an empty string)

## Controller
- Modify the event listener such that:
  - When a user presses **a letter**:
    - add it to the grid at the right position.
    - append the letter to the `currentGuess`.
    - increase the `currentPosition` by 1.
  - When a user presses **the backspace key**:
    - decrease the `currentPosition` by 1.
    - remove the last letter from the grid.
      - By adding an empty string to the cell at the `currentPosition` (after it was decreased).
    - remove the last letter from the `currentGuess`.
  - When a user presses **the enter key**:
    - If the `currentPosition` is less than the length of the word, indicate that the word is not complete.
    - If the `currentPosition` is equal to the length of the word:
      - Check if the game is over.
        - If the word guessed is correct, end the game.
        - If the word guessed is not a valid word, indicate that the word is not valid.
        - If the word guessed is valid but incorrect, if the `currentAttempt` is more than the game allowed number of attempts, end the game.

## Game Logic
- Create a function `checkGuess()` that checks the user's guess.
  - The function should:
    - Check if the word guessed is valid `isWordValid`.
      - If not, indicate that the word is not valid.
      - If yes, check the position of the letters in the guess `checkWord`.
        - If all letters are in the correct position, then the word is correct and the game is over.
    - Check if the word guessed is valid.

- Create a function `isWordValid(word)` that checks if the word is valid.
  - The function should ultimately make a network request to some API to check if the word is valid.
  - For now, we can start by checking if the word is in a list of valid words.
  - The function should return a boolean value.

- Create a function `getRandomWord()` that gets a random word.
  - The function should ultimately make a network request to some API to get a random word.
  - For now, we can start by getting a random word from a list of valid words.
  - The function should return a string.
  - Call this function to set the word instead of hardcoding it.

- Create a function `checkWord(word, guess)` that checks the position of the letters in the guess.
  - The function should return an array of strings.
    - The strings indicate whether the letter at that position is `correct`, `misplaced`, or `wrong`.

## Back to the Controller
### Update the Letters on the grid
- Create a function `revealAttemptResult()` that updates the grid with the current guess.
  - The function should:
    - The function should call the `checkWord` function and get the result.
    - Loop over the result and for each letter, it would update the cell at the specific position with the correct class.
      - The class would be `correct`, `misplaced`, or `wrong`.

- Update the `enter` event listener to call the `revealAttemptResult` function if the `currentPosition` is equal to the length of the word.