---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 'Part 1: Reconfiguring the App'
sidebar_label: App Reconfiguration
---

## Setup and Getting Started
- Accept the assignment on GitHub Classroom.
- Clone the repository to your local machine.
- You will find it already setup with the Rock Paper Scissors Game.
- Install the dependencies by running `npm install`.
- Start the development server by running `npm run dev`.

## Housekeeping
- Create a new folder for the different pages of the app.
  - You can call it `pages`, `routes`, `views`, or anything else you prefer and makes sense.
- Move the game components to a `rps` folder, then move that folder to the new folder.

## Create a Home Page Component
- Create a new file `HomePage.js` in the `routes` folder.
- Create a functional component `HomePage` in the `HomePage.js` file.
  - For now, it can just be a simple heading and a paragraph.
  - Feel free to get fancy and creative with the content.

## Create a Navigation Component
- Create a new folder for the different components of the app.
  - You can call it `components`, `common`, `shared`, or anything else you prefer and makes sense.
- Create a new file `Navigation.js` in the `components` folder.
- This components will serve as the navigation bar for the app.
- To start, this can just be a simple unordered list with a few list items.
  - Each list item will be a link to a different page of the app.
  - For now, you can just have a link to the home page.

## Install and Setup React Router
- Install the `react-router-dom` package by running `npm install react-router-dom`.
- In the `main.js` file, you can replace the `App` component with a `<RouterProvider>` component.
- In the `RouterProvider` component, you'll need to provide the routes.
- You'll need to use the `createBrowserRouter` function from `react-router-dom` to define the routes.
- Setup the routes for the home page and the rock-paper-scissors game.

## Update the Navigation Component
- Update the `Navigation` component to use the `Link` component from `react-router-dom`.
- The links should point to the home page and the rock-paper-scissors game.